A facebook post:

Picard subplot: Turns out Data survived the explosion in Nemesis. Through several years of procedures, he was finally able to become human.

Finish the story!

My reply:

---

It was dark. The explosion to a human would have been perceived almost instantaneous, but to him it happened at an excruciatingly slow pace. He had felt his extremities go first, then his torso had disappeared. Internal subprograms performing constant background maintenance were screaming errors into his consciousness. Then .. dark.
"It looks like you figured it out, Data."
He was confused. He ran a quick calculation - this point he should have been completely consumed. This couldn't be a hallucination.
"No, no. You're not dead Data. Well, you are, but you're not dead dead."
The voice was familiar, but none of his classification subroutines were working correctly. His internal chronometer was not available. "Where am I?" he asked the void.
"Come now, Data, you must remember who I am. Here, I'll come closer."
A form congealed from the darkness. Blurry, splotches of colour was moving. He didn't have any frame of reference or orientation sensor input, so he was unsure in which direction it was moving. Just .. it was moving.
"Where am I?" he asked again.
"You're in a space between where you were living and .. well, where you aren't living."
"That is surprisingly unhelpful." He stopped trying to run diagnostic subroutines as he had no useful results or any indication how much time had passed. The figure was getting sharper, humanoid, familiar.
"Q. Where am I?"
Q laughed. "You solved the puzzle. The robot who yearns to be human. You know, I wasn't quite sure you'd ever figure it out."
"The puzzle?" Data was again confused. "What puzzle are you referring to?"
"Whether humanity is worth saving, Data. You have spent all your life trying to become human without really understanding what being human truely is."
"What is it?"
"You sacrificed yourself to save your friends. Humanity created life in its own image and gave it the ability to love, to feel, to .. well, a lot of things. But you evolved enough to make a decision about your own life. You made a difficult decision Data. I'm not sure your friends would have done the same."
"Are they ok?"
Q laughed. "Yes, of course they're OK. The ship is a little worse for wear, but I'm sure they'll skedaddle around and repair it for another pointless journey. But you, you're on a different path now Data. Do you still want to be human?"
Data paused. "Yes. But if I am dead, are you planning on resurrecting me?"
"Oh no, no." Q shook his head. He then stared straight at Data with that sly look normally reserved for Picard. "I'm going to do something better."
He snapped his fingers.
He woke up, a child. No memory of his past, no indication he was once Data, an android built in the 24th century with a lifetime of experiences. The TV was on, showing black and white cartoons. The faint smell of tobacco wafted into his room.
"Mom, is dinner ready?"


