Immortal Dreaming (draft)
(yes, a draft.)

Two sets of footsteps echoed sharply though the empty hospital ward.

“Am I doing the right thing?”, he asked.

“You’re asking me? Can’t you see the future yet?”

He chuckled. He had been called a lot of things over time - an abomination, the messiah, an alien - sometimes, all three. The truth is, he honestly didn’t know. But he definitely couldn’t see the future. Yet.

“No, that’d be too easy.” He thought back about all the things he had once thought impossible - and stopped when he realised he once thought he could actually die. “I’m still more or less human, you know.”

“You were once more or less human.” He was born human, that much is known. There was nothing immediately obviously different about him. But over time, things started to change. First, he started to heal quicker from bruises. Then, broken bones healed immediately. Soon after that, he .. just stopped breaking at all. Then he stopped aging.

Grinning, he looked at his friend. “But now, you’re some weird version of Superman.”

“You mean, if Superman couldn’t fly and was born here.”

“Well, yes.”

He thought back over the last two hundred years. No-one had figured out what changed. He was born human, to two human parents. His DNA was human. They even tried cloning him - the clones stayed human. “You know, it really is weird that I outlived my own clones.”

“Huh?”

“Oh, sorry. I was just thinking about .. that.”

They both stopped. All of that happened here, once, in the now deserted hospital. “Well, everyone wanted a piece of you. They thought you were the saviour of humanity. I read about the hysteria around supposed immortality around the corner. People lost their shit.”

“Well, yes. They also lost their shit when they realised it wasn’t as easy.” He sighed. “They blamed me for all of that. I didn’t do anything. I was some physics student playing football. I had two parents. I had a girlfriend.” He stopped. “They’re all gone.”

“I know. Everyone is gone. That’s why we’re here.”

He walked over to a nearby bench and slowly sat down. “I never really thought this through, you know. I just wanted a normal life. Now I’m not sure.”

“Not sure?” He sat down next to his friend.

“I don’t know how long I’m going to live. I can’t die, not through any way anyone currently understands. God knows I’ve tried.” This included, but wasn’t limited to skydiving into the Nevada desert, head-first, with no parachute. He left a large crater and burnt everything 100 metres in every direction. Including his clothing. And his hair. That was about the only part of him that didn’t stay put.

“Hah. Remember when you tried dying from exposure to space?”

He chuckled. “That was pretty awesome.”

“Awesome?”

“There I was, in an airlock. I was panicing - would I die? What would it feel like? I knew the vaccum wouldn’t kill me - I already went through that during space training. But the cold? And the heat? I wasn’t prepared for that. The airlock opened, and there I was, in a t-shirt and sweat pants, floating through space. My front was facing the sun and felt on fire. My back felt ice cold. As I slowly rotated it felt like I was being spit roast alive.”

“How was that awesome?”

He grinned. “Well, I saw the astronauts through the window. Half of them were grinning and half of them looked down. When I returned, it turned out they had a betting pool going. One of them lost a vintage 1990’s car of some sort.”

A door slammed shut in the distance. They both looked up. He closed his eyes and concentrated. “It’s just the cleaning robot in the next ward.”

“Ah. That always weirds me out, you know.”

“It weirds me out.” Only a few people knew he could see nearby objects. It had been slowly improving over time. As far as his friend was aware, he could only feel out to a hundred metres. In reality, he could now feel out to the adjacent building.

They both sat quiet for some time. They had known each other for almost seventy years. Long, quiet stretches were normal now. “So,” breaking the silence, “what now?”

“Well, now, I think I need a nap.”

“A nap? That’s what you’re calling it?” In reality, he hadn’t needed to sleep for almost seventy years.

“Sure. I’ve been awake for a while now. I think it’ll be a good chance of scenery.”

“This isn’t a nap. This is where you pinch space-time around yourself and .. vanish.” He sighed. “And this time, it’s not for a day, or a week. It’s for two hundred years.”

“We talked about this. You know why.” Knowing didn’t make it any easier.

He thought about this for a while. “Are you sure this is the right choice? You can’t go back once you start.”

He laughed. “Yet. I can’t go back yet.”

Now they were both laughing. It echoed eerily down the hallway. “No, I don’t know if this is the right thing to do. But everyone I know, everyone I knew, everyone I loved .. they’re all gone. And they’re going to keep dying. It kinda gets to you after a while.” He paused for a while. “I wish it didn’t.”

“No, you don’t. That’s what makes you human, and not an unfeeling monster.”

“You mean, an unfeeling God.” He had been called God, Jesus, Prophet by millions. It almost started another world war. Millions still hung on every and any word he said. This made it impossible to live a normal life. Thousands would track him down to wherever he had managed to seclude himself, even risking their own lives in the process. He thought about his attempt at living on top of Everest. Once he had been tracked down, almost ten thousand pilgrims died over three months trying to reach him.

He grinned again. “Come on, when you can part the sea, fly through the sky and rain fire down upon people - then you’re a God. Until then, you’re just my pop.”

“Your great, great, great, great, great grandfather. You’re my last living relative. It doesn’t make this any easier.”

“I’m your last living relative. That’s why we’re here.” He stood up and looked down at him. “Now, stand up and give me a damned hug, will you.”

He stood up and they embraced. “You’re really going now, aren’t you?”

“Yes, I am.”

“I hope that the world is better when you get back. I really do.”
“So do I.” They had spent the last year talking about this moment. The hope was that over the next two hundred years, he would pass into history as some departed Immortal. His last public words could be summarised as “Don’t be a dick.” They both wondered if even that would be mis-interpreted and he’d return to find people wearing penises on their heads. He smiled, “Either that, or I’ll just have to figure out how to come back.”

He grinned and stood back. “Well, you’ll know where I’ll be if you do.”

“Yup.”

They embraced again, and then without much warning, he wasn’t there anymore. He stood there, looking down the halls of the hospital ward, and said a silent prayer to his grandfather.
