Untitled
James walked along the empty ward and looked into each room with a casual glance. He stared up at the large clock at the end of the hallway and double-checked his watch still matched the hospital time. The bored tedium began to set in. “Another five hours of this,” he mumbled. Humming to himself, he walked back to his desk, leaned over and grabbed a nearby textbook. He thumbed through the textbook in search of whatever it was he needed to revise this week, found it and began to read.

“Whatcha reading there, kid?” Angus popped his head out from a nearby corridor. He began sweeping the floor, slowly shuffling his way towards James. He took one look at the textbook. “Final year, eh?”

James looked up. “How’d you know that?”

“There’s only one reason you’d be reading that. Unless your hobby included specialised surgery techniques. Y'know, with all the spare time you kids seem to have.”

James chuckled to himself. “Good guess.”

“So how long ya have left?” Angus gestured down the hallway.

“This ward?” James put down his textbook. “About three weeks, then it’s back to class.”

“About half way through then? You’re in for a bit of fun.”

Frowning, James stood up, grabbed the clipboard next to him and began inspecting the nearby monitors. Each display showed a steady, rhythmic heartbeat from each patient. “This wasn’t my first choice.”

“Grand plans, eh? I have those.” Angus mocked. He kept sweeping.

“Medical school. I wanted to temp in ER. This was all they had available. At least here I get a quiet chance to study. Too quiet.”

“You don’t see this as difficult or interesting?” Angus replied. He turned away from James and began sweeping down the hallway. “You have time to study?”

James indicated down the hallway. “They’re all long-term coma patients”, he said. “They’re unlikely to wake up. All I have to do all night is check them, clean them, turn them and change them. Only one needs regular medicating. The others are simple.”

Angus stopped sweeping. Grinning, he looked back at James. “Simple, eh?”

“Yes. I wish there was more going on. All I hear are these damned machines. I can hear the lifts go by, I can even hear them fart. No-one has visited them on my shift. It’s driving me a little crazy.”

“Well, this place’ll do that. You’re not the first student to go stir crazy here. Some just got jittery and paniced at every little thing. Others started seeing things, or hearing things. It’s this place; it makes people crazy.”

“Hearing things? Like what?”

Angus lit up. “Voices. Music. Lots of stuff. You were humming something before, what was it?”

James shifted. “Some old rock ballad. Unchained Melody. I’m not sure where I’ve heard it before. It’s one of old pieces you just hear from time to time. Honestly, it’s driving me a little crazy.”

—

“I bet I can tell you more than your charts will. Every one of these patients has a story.”

“Really?” James started walking down the hallway. He pointed at the first door to his left. “What about him?”

“Sam? Hit and run. In a coma and missing both legs. And a testicle. Don’t know which he’ll be more pissed about.”

“And her?”

“Karen’s husband shot her kids, her, then himself. Crazy thing is, she wasn’t hit all that badly. Surgery went through straightforward, she recovered after a week, then was told about what had happened. She fainted and has been there ever since. That was five years ago.”

They stopped at the last doorway at the end of the hall. Inside, a frail old man was peacefully sleeping in a small hospital bed. A small cupboard sat in the far corner. Two bedside tables were on either side of the bed, with plastic flowers lightly covered in dust. A simple monitor machine kept a regular beat.

“What’s his story?”

“Eric’s a concert pianist; been playing since he was a small boy. A prodigy, they say. One day he just stood up in the middle of a concert, said he had a headache, and collapsed. He’s been here ever since.”

“.. collapsed? From what?”

“You’re the doctor; why are you asking me?”

“… Good point.” James walked into the room, pulled out the chart, and began reading. “Then what?”

“His wife came by, every day, and sat with him from early morning to late evening. She read to him, talked to him, told him about her day, asked him questions he never answered.”

James found what he was after. “It says here a minor stroke. they operated .. in the 60’s? And he survived?”

“He’s here, right?”

“ .. Again, good point. So he came off the respirator a week afterwards and has been in a coma ever since.” James closed the file and put it on the bed. “Where’s his wife now?”

“She died, about fifteen years back.”

“So what’s this have to do with the music I’ve been hearing?”

“Every day, Eric’s wife would play records. He apparently had a huge collection of the things. I remember hearing all sorts of music day in and day out. It really brightened up this place. You’ll never guess what his favourite was.”

James looked up at Angus. “ … Seriously?”

“Yup.”

“I don’t believe you. You’re just inventing stuff.”

“You’re the doctor; not me. Besides, if you don’t believe me, go ask the hospital shrink about it. He’s been here bout as long as I have and he’s treated most of the doctors and such from here. They all say the same thing. That song, over and over.”

“Where’s the record player now?”

“I dunno. Guess it’s in here somewhere.”

“This is all a bit farfetched, don’t you think?” James began looking around the room. “So you’re saying that people started hearing music when his wife died?”

“Yup.”

“.. and no-one else knows about this? I don’t believe you.” He walked over to a small wooden cupboard in the corner of the room and opened it up. Inside were some scrapbooks, a small stack of records and a small brown box. James pulled out the box and fiddled with the latch. It was slightly rusted and stuck shut.

“Sure they do. I tell ‘em; they don’t believe me. Well, the ones that believed me are either crazy, or dead. Some died crazy. The shrink here tells me to keep quiet; I think he doesn’t want me scaring y'all off.”

James forced open the latch. Inside was a small portable record player, a set of very rusted batteries, a small white lint cloth and an equally small packet of pickups. “You know, I’m not even sure I know how to use this thing.”

Agnus moved over and knelt down. “Give it here,” he said, “this was probably made before you were born. You’ll break it.” He took the unit from James and began fiddling with the player arm. “Go see if the record is there. I’ll see if this player still works.”

“Works? Those batteries are shot. I don’t think we have any that’ll fit.”

“Sure, but sometimes these old things came with, hm.” He uncapped the battery compartment and sure enough, a small white power cable was also inside. “Yeah, see underneath?” He picked up the unit, carried it over to the bedside table and plugged it in. Eric stirred a little.

James stood up and began searching through the pile of dusty records. He started humming. Angus chuckled.

He stopped. “Damn, I’m doing it again, aren’t I?”

Angus grinned back at James and turned on the record player. A slight hum came from it. “Let’s see if this pickup still works.” He gently stroked the underside of the player arm but only the hum continued. “See the player arm?” he pointed at the single plastic arm extended over the turntable, “these pickups go in here.” He pulled out one of the pickups from the cartridge, removed the old one and placed it in its place. “Let’s see if it works, eh?” He stroked the new pickup and crackling came out of the player.

“Here it is. Unchained Melody, Righteous Brothers. Weird.” He handed the record to Angus, who took the record out of the faded paper sleeve and gently brushed it with the white cloth. “You have to do this, see, or the dust messes up the playing.” He placed the cleaned record on the turntable and set the player to play. The record slowly began turning, gently moving up and down as it rotated. Angus placed the arm on the outside groove of the record and immediately the player started crackling. The tune began a few seconds later.

James stared at the player. Shaking his head, he muttered, “Great, now I hear the tune here and I hear the tune in my head. Just what I needed.” He turned to glance at Eric. “Is it just me, or is he smiling?”

“Maybe. Let’s see .. ah, here. ” He pressed a button on the player. “It’ll repeat the song.. well, I hope. Let’s leave him be.” James continued staring at Eric, who was breathing slightly easier.

“Why are you still looking at him? What did you think would happen?”

James smiled. “I dunno, the music in my head to stop? That he’d wake up?”

Angus moved to the door. “Let’s leave the old man in peace for a while. It’s been fifteen years since he’s heard this; let’s give him some privacy.” They walked out of the room together. James began checking the other patients; Angus went back to cleaning the hallway. The song ended a couple of minutes later; the record player gently creaked in the distance, made some odd mechanical noises, and the song began playing again.
