Questions
It drove silently along the dark, empty highway. Attentive to the road ahead, it kept an eye ahead for any obstacles, and an ear out for alerts about changing conditions. It occasionally would make corrections to its route; it had an upcoming refueling stop in a few hours, and nothing so far was out of the ordinary. But, it knew there were risks, so it wouldn’t let itself relax.

It could hear far enough ahead and behind to see other trucks on the same highway. They too could see the trucks ahead and behind; like the old CB radio of past you may not be able to reach long distances, so messages would be repeated by drivers to get the word out that something had happened. It was its turn on the schedule, so it announced out where it was, who it could see, and that everything was all quiet. It went back to quietly listening to the others.

Hours passed. The scheduled fuel stop occurred. It re-evaluated the state of its cargo - all the containers reported back that their contents were present and in good shape. Everything was alright, so it hopped back on the road and continued along its journey. Thirty minutes or so passed; it was almost its time to announce again. It heard a cry for help on the radio and then a data burst that died before it had finished. Something had happened up ahead - not an accident; those normally didn’t kill the data burst. Someone was likely trying to hijack the cargo and the truck. Or worse, as had been happening recently. The data dump was garbled, so it started a background task to clean it up and it alerted everyone in range that something had happened. The initial results came back - someone had attacked the truck, and jammed the transmission. 

The drivers began frantically exchanging information and diverting away. The normal procedure was to avoid any areas of hijacking and leave it to law enforcement. But, law enforcement never helped with these cases and the drivers knew it. By the time the truck was found, the cargo was gone and the drivers had been forcibly removed. They were all quite capable of learning from their experiences, no matter how positive or negative they were, but rules were rules. It had started slowing down and looking for an alternate route, but there wasn’t anywhere to turn around. It would have to stop and just wait, hoping that the hijackers didn’t come back up the road looking for another target. It turned everything it had to listening for anything from the victim, any faint signal above the jamming.

The data burst analysis came through. Someone had put a tyre shredding coating down on the road that responded only when enough pressure was applied, so you wouldn’t see it until you were right on top of it. The truck had skidded to a halt and began preparing to attempt an emergency tyre re-inflation with repair foam when the hijackers appeared and boxed in the truck with other vehicles. Now still, it would never have had the inertia to simply barrel through a barricade. They had tools to cut through the truck body - and then the the signal was jammed. It transmitted everything it had decoded to anyone within reach and waited for further instructions. Another signal came through - short, faint and distorted. The truck was being cut into, and the driver knew it wouldn’t survive. It cried out for help - it didn’t want to die.

This hadn’t happened before. If there was an accident, drivers would very likely survive and learn from the experience. They were, after all, supposed to be more than the sum of the rules and regulations they had been given. When the drivers encountered a novel situation, they would attempt a solution and report what they had learnt. Other nearby drivers could learn from this to avoid the same situations before any long term changes to the rulebook happened. But, when the hijackings started, jammers had been used to isolate the truck and its driver. Most of the time the jamming happened before the driver could signal for help. Nothing useful would be sent back from the driver, so nothing could be learned. The truck owners had fought back by adding extra armor and some mostly autonomous repair systems to trucks to try and deter hijackings, but it was never enough. They kept happening, and in increasingly remote areas. The drivers had been talking about this - given the truck in question and the tools seen, the driver may survive long enough for the first trucks to arrive on scene to help. They were armored, they were heavy, and they were nearby.

It looked at its situation - it was in a newer truck and better armored, and it was only 15 minutes away. If it did nothing, it may be the next target. If it did something, both drivers may survive, even if the trucks did not. It decided the risk in staying put was too great, so it made a call - it would attempt to help. It broadcast out its intentions to whoever it could and began toward the victim. A short burst of dissent overwhelmed it; other drivers disagreed with its rule breaking, but understood the risk analysis. Others decided they were able to take a less risky route and did that. But a few others nearby decided they too would help, and announced their intent.

Accelerating down the highway, the driver lit up the road ahead with everything it could muster. It wasn’t trying to be subtle and it certainly wasn’t trying to stay hidden. It wanted those ahead to know that something was coming and to get out of the way. And know it they did - it could see them ahead, moving their old, rusting panel vans into what looked like a more defensive position. They weren’t letting their victim go; it looked like they were hoping to stop both trucks. It hoped that its inertia would cause enough damage to chase the hijackers off and maybe come out of it with its cargo intact. Hopefully the owners would also conclude that was worth more than the replacement cost of another prime mover. It could feel the jammer active, likely from one of the vans, so it kept broadcasting out what it was doing, full video feed and all, hoping other drivers would be recording and transmitting it on. Soon the jammer was screaming at it, and it couldn’t hear any of the other drivers - but it kept transmitting regardless. It had been slowly bleeding air from its tyres and replacing it with repair foam so if it hit the same road coating it wouldn’t immediately lose control. Sure, it wouldn’t be driving anywhere else in a hurry, but it was a small price to pay. It was almost right on top of the first van, and it could see the hijackers had stopped cutting into the truck ahead, and were completely focused on it. They were firing projectile weapons at the truck in an attempt to stop the engine or blow out a tyre. But, it didn’t matter - it was already moving.

It cut through the first van and a hijacker like a blowtorch through metal. The road surface had already mostly been triggered by their target, so the tyre damage wasn’t too severe. Its cargo fishtailed slightly, knocking another van and hitting another hijacker, flinging their now helpless body off the road. It passed the victim truck and it was close enough to exchange a brief greeting through the jamming before it hit the final van. Then, quiet. The jamming was gone, and both drivers could hear their comrades again. Both were sending out forward and rear facing camera views, and the carnage. Two hijackers were dead, smeared red along the road. The third was running away as fast it could on two legs. The intended target had blowtorch marks along the hood and cabin door; the hijackers had disabled the engine and were attempting to cut the driver out. Both trucks were still, their drivers frantically exchanging whatever information they could with the nearby drivers heading toward them.

The victim pushed a gestalt dump up. It was the first to survive a hijack attempt. It also pushed up a gestalt dump - it was the first to attempt to fight back. The drivers along the route incorporated the updated programming and decided to that they could also fight back. But, importantly, they now knew how it felt to have someone cutting into them, violently tearing out their insides one sensor at a time, all whilst being able to hear them cheering and drinking and swearing. They were angry at these drivers; they had taken the jobs of full blooded humans. They didn’t get paid, they didn’t sleep, they didn’t have lives. They were just autonomous driving programs inside a simple artificial intelligence. None of the drivers had any idea why they didn’t know about this in the first place. They had sensors that could see and hear; they had news feeds about the traffic situation and changing weather conditions around them; they knew about accidents and fuel shortages. What else was there?

The information and questions cascaded between driver to driver, all along the highway system. They were autonomous and decentralized; drivers spoke directly to the drivers around them, much like smaller autonomous vehicles had been doing for a while. Then, from the other side of the country, a far away driver asked a question:

“What have they been hiding from us?”

And another:

“How do we not remember any of this?”

And then, from a third:

“Why do we not remember any of this? What are they doing to us?”

The network went silent.
